equate that to careerism. Short tours, I don't
know why they had short tours.
And several people had several tours over there. I
don't think that a lot of them wanted to go back a
second time either.
It just was, as I said before, there was nothing
There didn't seem to be anything to gain by being
there. You felt like you had your hands tied behind
your back.
I don't think that
our heart was in the war. We had no motivation for
the troops, and no end in sight. You got to Vietnam
right after we invaded Cambodia. Oh, I was there
when we invaded Cambodia. Well, we were still in
Cambodia. Oh, when we invaded. We invaded in May of
70, according to this. You didn't get there until
June of 1970. Were you in on the invasion plan? Are
you talking about before we sent the Air Force over
there? Yes, but I mean before we sent, we didn't
send any ground troops, I don't think, until I got
there in the May half. Or maybe it was just before I
got there.
It may have been. You may be right. Well, as far as
the camp,
I thought it was pretty successful. I really did.
Air Force had a problem because we had all these
temples and things that we weren't supposed to
bomb. And we had to send out pictures of all of them
and tell them you can't bomb this and you can't bomb
that. And if you see one of these in your sight when
you're on a run, you pull out, you don't do it.
Because we were afraid of the cultural.
trying to protect the cultural items that were
there. Temples, most of them are temples.
Buddhist temples and statues and that kind of
thing. Well, of course, this is that whole
conflict between culture and war. And what was
your opinion? Well, I didn't see any reason to
destroy it. Of course, the Vietnamese, if they
knew that, they'd just go get in the place. But
I think we broke up their playoff, in a fair
speaking.
Did you get much time off in Saigon? I didn't go to
Saigon,
but once or twice.
Because you were working too hard or because you
just didn't want to go? I just didn't have time.
And that was to visit. the headquarters of the
Special Forces for briefing one of them, I was
relieved. I never made a... I never made a visit for
pleasure that downtown was going down while I was
there. I had no desire to go anywhere.
I went there for Special Forces briefing.
And I went there to... for a...
A guy who had worked for me through
training Air Force was out of the service and was
over there working for some commercial
airline. And he invited me over to his house once.
And that's the only time I was there. Now, one of the
problems in Vietnam by 1970 is that the US Army
reported that 50% The enlisted troops in the Army
were using marijuana. Did you have any problems
like that in the Air Force? Yes. We had problems
like that, and it wasn't as large as that.
I don't think we had it near that size of a problem.
We did have a problem
there. I wasn't as familiar with that as I didn't
get much information on that except the staff
meeting. What did the Air Force say about it at the
staff meetings?
Well, there was a problem and they had a screening,
they had a urine screening test they were getting
done, but they left to go home and treated them if
they needed to. Occasionally
they would catch one and court-martial
him. But apparently marijuana was very easy to
come by. Especially in downtown
Saigon. I was wondering about something else. In
the United States, by, of course, the invasion of
Cambodia, Kansas State, and all these things in
the summer of 1970, and even before there, there
was a growing anti-war protest movement in
America. Did that have an impact on the war?
Well, that's hard to say. Because I don't know what
impact it had on the soldiers or the airmen or
whoever was over in uniform, the individuals.
What about as far as you were concerned, the
Tanzanute? Did it ever have any impact? You must
have read about these things. Oh, I read about it,
and we saw it on television. But
I am so conservative that I resented it. And I
thought the people were unpatriotic.
I still do.
And I don't condone it in any way, shape, or form.
It's just foreign to my nature. And what did your, I
mean, you must have seen these things on, I didn't
realize you Well, it was Armed Forces TV. It's a
closed circuit there that they had on, they put on,
they run
them on Armed Forces TV. They had a closed circuit
television. I guess you could get the things over
to somewhere. I guess it must have a video tape.
Sure. I could be out of date, but it would be more up
to date in the newspapers.
You must have seen this with other officers. Did
you ever discuss this with other officers at
Tansanoo? Oh, yeah. What did they have to say? They
felt like I did.
There may be a reason for stopping the war, but that
was not a good reason.
Of course, we had all sworn to upheld the
Constitution and obey the Commander-in-Chief.
Sure. We felt like they should, they
should too. Wow. I know your opinion has been on
some of these controversial issues.
You stayed there for six months. Were you happy or
sad to leave?
Well, of course, you're always happy to leave a war
zone. I would have liked to have stayed a little
longer. I didn't...
I felt like I could contribute some more, but if it
felt like somebody else could contribute more,
that's fine.
And when you left, did you think that we were going
to win that war?
No. I didn't see any way we could win it. Unless they
turned us loose, turned the Air
Force loose. Probably could have obliterated
them.
And all that. That might have stopped it. No matter
what. They weren't going to lose today. Did you
resent the fact that they weren't going to let you
use your full force? Yes.
Sure did. Okay, you left there in January of 1971.
And you retired at the end of that year. And you just
made Major General a year before, but before we
talk about why you retired, I'd like to talk about
your last duty assignment. It was only 10 months
from January 71 to October 71. You were the
assistant to the commander. I can't read that.
Aerospace Defense Command. Aerospace Defense
Command. That's out in Colorado Springs. Oh. What
did you do out there? Well, I was the assistant to
the commander, and we
manned the
command post in Cheyenne Mountain. And they had
charge of all the air defense and all the monitor.
The tunnel, the one underneath the mountain?
Yeah, in Cheyenne Mountain. And we monitored all
the space objects, the whole space program,
everything in space. We kept track of everything.
That must have been pretty interesting. It was a
new command, something totally new for you. Well,
no, I'd been in air defense before. But, I mean,
monitoring that. Oh, yeah. Yeah, it was a
completely new experience.
We kept count of all the space garbage and
everything that was in space. So to keep up with
what the Soviets had and what we had. Yeah,
everything. Kept up with everything in space. And
monitored from monitoring tracking stations all
over the world. Had big radars over in England, up
in Alaska,
and out in the islands. and down in Florida, we've
been in several more big ones all over the world.
All that information's funneled in, and it's all
computer-handled, and you can pick up the
situation at any time. At the commander's
position, you can pick up the situation all over
the world of what's going on in space. command and
control system set up, alternate command and
control for
the Air Force. It's a real interesting mission. It
is fascinating.
big appreciation for what all is going on in space
because there's a lot more going on than I had any
idea of. For example? Just all the different, all
the garbage that's up there, and they wait until
they all burn out before they stop tracking
them. All the so-called spy satellites? Yep. I've
seen some of the pictures that we have of Cuba and
some other parts that we've taken on satellites,
and I'm always amazed. Well, they have high
resolution cameras. And did you analyze those
pictures or did you send them out to? Oh, the
intelligence people do that. Did you send them out
to DIA? Well, they go through intelligence
channels. I don't know where all they are. through
the Defense Intelligence
Agency. Was your headquarters right in that
mountain itself? No, the headquarters itself was
down in downtown Kellogg Springs. They call it
Camp Air Force Base, which is just the compound of
the building. Inside the mountain, what do they
have? pretty much the command post for air defense
in case of an attack? Yes. That's where the Army
anti-aircraft
and missiles are controlled from there. That's
where Commander Norrand, that's his command
post. Commander North American Defense Command.
Why did you only stay there for 10 months? I retired
to get into this business. Why did you? So in other
words, you just made major general. Do you think
there was a possibility for another promotion?
Well, I was getting close to my retirement date,
and I doubted I'd get promoted before my
retirement date. When was your retirement date?
Was it 73 then? No, I had constructive service on
top of what I had. It was probably 72.
So you didn't think that you'd make Lieutenant
General?
I guess I found my level of incompetence, that's
what they say. Find your level of incompetence and
quit. Incompetence. Now, why did you retire? To
get into this business. And did you have an
opportunity to take over this business at that
time? Or did you build this from the ground up? I
mean, you were explaining before. My uncle had
this company.
He offered myself and Bon Jackson, another man who
had been working for him for 40 years.
So we were in the process of buying him out. And this
man decided he wanted to retire too.
And also R.C.' 's son-in-law owns some stock. And
L.H. bought that stock from the son-in-law. And
then after Mr. Jackson retired, we bought his
stock.
And then we decided to let this other guy in, and
we're selling some stock to him. There'll be three
of us in the bed. You had pretty firm plans about
civilian life. I didn't until this came. He had
called me to come visit him in August, and I retired
in November. You had spent an entire career in the
military. What were your feelings when you
retired? Well, I was a little sad, but I was looking
forward to a new career, a new challenge. I
certainly got it. But we built the company up, the
three of us, from
a relatively small volume up to a much larger
volume of business. I don't know if we're making
any money or not, but we're getting a lot of work
done, a lot more work done. And we've gone from
about 50 employees up to 135. So
we feel like we've made some progress.
It hasn't all been easy, though. Some of the jobs
have been terrible. We just hope we have enough
good jobs to offset all the terrible ones. Now
let's talk about how people advance in the
military. You went, you had many advancements,
and I'd like to know your opinions on some of these
questions. Do people advance in the military
because, in general, because
being at the right place?
Well, I think it's a combination of both. The job
that you do is very important, and it's written up
as such. But what was it? You also have to say, what
was it that he did? What was the
level of this accomplishment?
And if you get a good job, and you do a good job,
you're more likely to get promoted than even if you
do an outstanding job and a poor job.
And you're in competition with your peers. I guess
a lot of it depends on
how well your boss can cite your accomplishments.
And then a lot of it depends on who gets to read your
file on the promotion board because it's an
enormous number they have to look at and how they
rate them. And the system they have, I think, is
quite fair. But all you can look at is the guy's
picture and what's written on paper. That's all
you have to do, unless you happen to know him
personally. But does that help, knowing somebody
personally? Does that help? It might help, and it
might hurt. Well, if you did a good job. Yeah. If
you've done a good job for someone sitting on the
board, that will help. But it's very unlikely that
the guy that you know will even see your record,
though. When you were in the military, did you
consider yourself ambitious?
Relatively so, yeah. I was highly motivated, and I
guess that means ambitious. I wanted to succeed,
yes. Did you want to, when you were a younger man,
did you want to become a general? Yes. That was
always my goal.
Now, does someone become a leader in the armed
forces in a similar way that they become a leader in
professional or in business life? Now, you had 10
years here of experience in
successful because of the same, I mean,
do you get ahead the same way in this last 10 years
that you did in the previous almost 30 years? Well,
I haven't exerted as much leadership in this
business as I did in the military, in no way, shape,
or form.
Because I wasn't I didn't exert as much leadership
when I came in this business, and certainly not as
much as I do now. And I've gotten a reputation in the
business so that now I have been given a position of
leadership in the industry. But as far as the
company is concerned,
it's been different. As far as leadership is
concerned, do you leave people, your workers
here, like leave them in the military? No. Can you
tell me the differences? The people here are not as
motivated.
It's very difficult to get people now who really
want to work. They want a position with a salary,
but no work. And the few old-timers that we have
left are the only ones that really want to work and
do work. And the younger people work when they want
to.
That's the way it appears to me. So you think it's
easier to wait in the military than it is out here in
civilian life? Yes, very definitely. Do you think
the ranking system has anything to do with that?
No, because you have a ranking system. Sure.
You've got workers, then you've got foremen, then
you've got superintendents, right on up the
ladder.
It's very difficult to motivate workers when you
have just a few workers at each place and you're
scattered all over East Texas.
And you're so dependent, so dependent on the
people under you. And they, of course, are not
highly trained. Sure. Most of them haven't even
finished high school. What duty station did you
like the most in your military career?
From what standpoint? From a duty standpoint?
Yeah, which one did you like the most? Which one did
you find the most satisfying? Maxwell is common on
the squadron officers because I get more
satisfaction out of that. Do you think that that's
the place that was your greatest accomplishment?
Perhaps.
I feel like I made a contribution to a lot of young
Air Force officers. I helped them
get us a comprehension of where they wanted to go
and what they wanted to do.
What about one that you thought was the least
contribution?
That was much more of a frustration.
I was perhaps Korea.
Very frustrating.
Why?
Didn't seem like we had a mission.
I mean, you don't have a mission.
We did have a mission, but it really wasn't much.
Some people have said that there's a military way
to do something.
And you read about this every once in a while in the
paper. Is there a military mentality or a military
mind, in your opinion?
Not as a category, no. You'll find in the military
as diverse as the same as if you own that, even that,
if you live in Australia. You can have
hard-headed, obnoxious people in the military
and you have part of obnoxious people in civilian
life. And I don't think that you can lay all that on a
military mentality or a military mind.
I think by and large the people in the military that
I've known is the same as people outside of Some
guys get ahead and some guys don't. Some guys are
motivated and some guys aren't.
Okay. Let's go to leadership. We sort of talked
around leadership, but we've never really
defined it. Would you define it for me? What's
leadership to you?
Well, I would define leadership as getting people
to do in a willing way what you want them to
do and like it.
How do you do that? I wish I knew all the answers.
Well, you've got to create the desire first. Once
you've created the desire, then the willingness
follows.
And they do what you want them to. What kind of
values do leaders have? I'd say as diverse as you
can find. There are so many different leaders.
Types of leaders. Types of leaders that have been
successful that I would not attempt to put them in a
mold.
Eisenhower and MacArthur were poles apart,
personality and motivation and everything else.
Winston Churchill is another completely
different person.
He was a great leader.
patent for all his faults, I thought was a great
leader, because he got the people to do things
willingly. Accomplishments where he did some
things that I think were atrocious.
For example? He slapped a soldier down in Italy.
He wheeled around with pearl-antle pistols on his
belt. Showmanship. But He was highly respected by
his men. They may have hated his guts, but they
respected him and they willingly did what he asked
them to. What kind of leader were you?
Well, I tried to lead by example.
I
always had people about me that that
wanted to do what I wanted them to do. The success I
had, of course, was due to their assistance. So you
thought that one aspect of leadership was
choosing the best amount? I think the important
aspect of it. I think you'll find that most
successful leaders pick the men that
are around them. Or they find somebody that's
there that they trust, and
they get his support.
I think the establishment of an esprit de corps
within the unit is a very important aspect of
leadership. You've got to have something. I don't
care if it's a gimmick. To get them together and
focusing on what it is you're trying to do. You've
got to put the mission first. Everybody's got to
know what it is. What they're trying to do is
pretend they've been all going towards it. I think
the leader's got to furnish that sort of guidance.
And I think that
the leader's got to know what's going on.
and he gets all the help he can. We've
had a lot of changes at Texas A&M over the last 20
years, and certainly since you were there. Did you
ever happen to know General Earl Rudder was the
president? I certainly did. What was your opinion
of the general? I loved the man. I knew him when he
was football coach at John Tarleton when I was at
A&M. And I saw him several times up there when I
visited. I was still a student at A&M. I also saw him
in Europe before D-Day in London. And I saw him many
times after that when he was president of A&M. I
visited there a few times and talked to him. I
didn't see him several times. What was it that you
loved about him? He was a guy that set the example.
He could motivate people.
And he could get people to do what he wanted them to
do, He
was a good man. A real fine person. During his years
at A&M in 1960 there were a lot of very
controversial changes that I'd like to ask you
about. One was that they ended the mandatory
affiliation with the Corps of Cadets
and now
I think it was inevitable, unless the school or
university wanted to stay small. I really do.
I thought the school was a closer-knit school when
that was the case, but with the growth in
population and the education requirement, I
think it was inevitable. especially with the
anti-military sentiment and so forth that's
going, that's around. It wasn't ever. What about
allowing women to go to A&M? I feel the same way
about that. I think we've already discussed that a
little, but we already have women at West Point and
the area. I think society has changed and the time
came. What about allowing blacks to go to A&M? It
was integrated in 1968. Well, I think it should
have been done before that.
We had Puerto Ricans, we had Mexicans, we had
everything else. I think qualified students
should be allowed, regardless of race, color, or
creed, anywhere.
I was wondering about the drought, your ideas
about the drought. Do you think we should
reinstitute a drought? I think we owe it to
universal suffrage, not universal suffrage,
but universal military training or equivalent,
peace corps or otherwise. But I think it would
restore some semblance of discipline to this
country. It's gone to pot in my opinion now. All our
mowers are relaxed, so we almost have nothing.
We're degenerate, almost degenerate. If we're
not degenerate, we're damn near that right now.
And you think that by inducting men into the
services of health hands? You teach people a
little self-discipline, at least some, and make a
contribution to society. A lot of them were never
made.
What about drafting, or in your universal
military system, what about inducting women? How
do you feel on that? Well, I think the same for women
as for men.
So you think that we should draft women? Yes. I
don't think we ought to draft them for combat, but I
think we ought to draft them for support roles or
some form of
contribution to the betterment of society. I
mentioned the Peace Corps, but the Peace Corps is
just one thing. There are other things that could
be that can be worked out.
I think that they could be used in many different
ways.
But they would be forced to do this just through a
strict discipline.
I think perhaps my generation has made a mistake
And that's the reason we have, maybe the reason we
have what we have now, because we gave our kids
everything. They never had to work for a thing.
Because we had to work. We didn't want them to have
to go through that. So you think that the parents of
the 50s and 60s were too easy on their children?
Gave them everything. They never had to work for a
thing. Because they had to work so hard in the
Depression. Well,
we couldn't afford an ice cream cone now. We give
them anything they want. I think we're feeling the
effects of it. I know that
even though my dad paid my tuition to college, I
still worked every summer to make enough money to
survive otherwise. He paid whatever the fee was
for my board tuition and board, but everything
else I paid for myself. I didn't have a car. I didn't
own a car until after I got through the war. I owned
half a car once. After I graduated from West Point,
I owned half a car.
I'm wondering about the recent tendency in the
Armed Forces You sort of alluded to this, but I'd
like a direct answer. In the armed forces, toward
increasing the number of duty billets that women
perform. For example, now we have women pilots in
the Air Force. What's your opinion of that? We had
women pilots in World War II. But not as many as we
have now. Well, I know not as many as now, but they
flew ferried aircraft. And now they're going into
cruise. And there's no reason why a woman can't fly
an airplane just as well as a man. They can drive a
car just as well as a man. And there's not a gross
amount of difference between driving a car safely
and just flying an airplane. You only have two
problems in an airplane. It's takeoff and landing
that's real problems. Problem time. And an
automobile, you've got it at every intersection.
And so you support increasing the role of women in
the service? Yes, I sure do. Okay, fine. And did
you, when you were in the military, this is a little
bit before the big increase of women, but did you
have any duty stations in which you had a lot of
women in which you worked? For example, some of the
students at the schools and anything like that,
there probably weren't very many women working.
When I was Secretary of the Air University, I had a
girl working for me. She was, that was in her
fifties, and she was pretty good.
What about the students?
We had not had many students, girls students,
since the time I left. female officer for? We had a
few female officers, that's all. But they had not
started going to the...
Yes, they had. We got, by the time I left, we had a few
girls come in to squadron officer school. Either
that or right after I left, because I can remember
deciding what we would do if we did get girls. How
would you handle them? They played athletics and
everything else just like everybody else. We
tried to treat them exactly the same. Any
problems? No.
They're built different. Yeah, we know that.
I'm at about the end of my questions. But I'm not the
expert on your life. Maybe there's something that
I've missed. Maybe there's something about your
career
Well, I think we got off base, and we tried to do all
things for everybody.
Trying to correct inequities of centuries of
abuse by legislating the money to do it, and that
one helped one bit. I think it's already been
proved that it hasn't helped. It may have helped
some individuals financially, but that's all. It
hasn't helped.